Sysdig (#6)
SUSE/technical-reference-documentation: SolutionStack/sysdig/adoc/TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs.adoc

:docinfo: shared
include::./common_docinfo_vars.adoc[]

// = {title}
= Sysdig with SUSE Rancher: Getting Started Guide

// SUSE Rancher - Sysdig
// :author: Samip Parikh, Solutions Architect, SUSE
// :author: Manuel Boira Cuevas, Strategic Partners Solutions Architect, Sysdig
:revnumber: 0.0.1
:toc2:
:toc-title: Sysdig with SUSE Rancher: Getting Started Guide

:toclevels: 4

:productname: SUSE Rancher

== Introduction

=== Motivation

SUSE Rancher enables you to accelerate your digital transformation by unifying your cloud native application landscape, ensuring consistent operations and workload management from core to cloud to edge.  Sysdig Secure gives you enhanced visibility and is designed to enable DevOps teams simplify security in cloud native environments, from development through production.

> Together, Sysdig Secure provides a number of capabilities to help you securely run your applications in your SUSE Rancher Kubernetes landscape:

Reviewer: That is weird.  Removing it.

* *Secure the build* – Automate image scanning in CI/CD pipelines and registries, efficiently flag vulnerabilities and owners, and block risky images.
* *Detect and respond to threats* – Identify threats across containers and cloud services and prevent intrusion and lateral movement. Respond quickly and conduct forensics using detailed activity audits.
* *Continuously validate cloud configurations and compliance* – Identify misconfigurations and compliance violations, and measure progress with detailed reports. Save time with out-of-the-box policies for standards such as PCI, NIST, HIPAA, and SOC 2.
* *Monitor and troubleshoot infrastructure and services*  – Maximize performance and availability using Kubernetes and cloud monitoring with full Prometheus compatibility.

=== Scope

This guide will help you take the first steps to integrate SUSE Rancher with the Sysdig Secure SaaS solution.

=== Audience

> This document is intended for DevOps and DevSecOps engineers, security professionals, and developers who are responsible for enabling security across containers, clusters, and cloud.

Reviewer: We were vague about "cloud," as it could be public clouds or private clouds.  Sysdig provides enhanced security over what is typically available in a public cloud as well as unification of security data across platforms.  We should probably state this more clearly.

== Technical overview

Sysdig security and monitoring capabilities for SUSE Rancher are enabled by deploying the Sysdig agent on the nodes of your cluster.  Relevant data and metadata are collected and available in the Sysdig SaaS backend and accessible via the Sysdig user interface (UI).  The Sysdig UI also provides the ability to customize aspects like policies, alerts, visualizations, permissions, etc.

Minimum requirements:

* A Sysdig cloud account. You can get started with a free trial by visiting https://sysdig.com/start-free/[https://sysdig.com/start-free].
* A SUSE Rancher cluster with a RKE, K3s, or any CNCF-certified Kubernetes cluster.  Clusters can be located on-premises or in the cloud.  You can also begin with community Rancher.
* Outbound Internet access (at least port 6443).  This allows collected information to be sent to the Sysdig back end.

You can find the prerequisites for the Sysdig agent install on Kubernetes in https://docs.sysdig.com/en/docs/installation/sysdig-agent/agent-installation/agent-install-kubernetes/#agent-install-kubernetes[the Sysdig documentation].

== Installation

> Get started by installing the Sysdig agent in your cluster.  This can be done by leveraging automation through the SUSE Rancher Apps & Marketplace or by a manual process.

Reviewer: Much better.

=== Install from the SUSE Rancher Apps & Marketplace

> 

Reviewer: I think I managed to keep everything lined up under the correct list items.

> From the top-left Rancher menu select “Apps & Marketplace.”  From here, you will be taken to the Charts page.

Reviewer: I think I've caught all the UI elements.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-marketplace-overview.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

> Locate and select Sysdig Monitor & Secure, which will automate installation of the Sysdig agent via the https://github.com/sysdiglabs/charts-rancher[Sysdig Helm chart].

Reviewer: We leverage "Sysdig Secure" and "Sysdig Monitor" to provide data back to a SaaS service, which is the "Sysdig Secure DevOps Platform" through the "Sysdig agent."  The unifying product, then, is "Sysdig Secure DevOps Platform."  I'm updating the titles and text accordingly.
Yes, using an :attribute: is a better way to do this.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-marketplace.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

In the UI, specify a namespace.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-install-1.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

And provide the https://docs.sysdig.com/en/docs/administration/administration-settings/agent-installation-overview-and-key/#agent-installation-overview-and-key[Sysdig access key].

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-install-2.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

Once you initiate the Helm chart, within 15 minutes you should begin seeing data and activity in your Sysdig UI.

=== Install using generic/manual steps

To install the Sysdig agent using manual steps, follow the instructions in https://docs.sysdig.com/en/docs/installation/sysdig-agent/agent-installation/agent-install-kubernetes/steps-for-rancher/#steps-for-rancher[the Sysdig documentation].

> == Demo / Use case

Reviewer: It's a bit long, but I think it more accurately reflects the fact that we are doing a demonstration but that it is for one use case ... there are others.

> Sysdig Secure runtime security provides policy-driven detections, based on open-source https://falco.org[Falco.]  Using out-of-the-box and custom policies, you can automate detection and alerting of suspicious and unexpected activity across containers, clusters, and clouds.

Reviewer: I like these suggestions.

In this example use case, we will create a custom runtime security policy that will detect when a shell is spawned in a container with an attached terminal.  Commands being executed with a terminal inside a running container can be an indicator of a potential infiltration or attack.

NOTE: For this example we are creating a *simple* custom rule that can be inhibited by other rules; thus we strongly recommend disallowing “Suspicious Container Activity” default rule before adding the new rule (Policies > Runtime Policies > Suspicious Container Activity).  After the experiment you may want to reactivate it again.

=== Create the custom runtime security policy

> 

Reviewer: I think I got everything aligned correctly.

Log into Sysdig Secure and, in the Sysdig UI on the left panel, select Policies > Runtime Policies.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-select-runtime.png[scaledwidth="50%", align="center"]

This opens the *Runtime Policies* page, where you can see the pre-defined policies.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-Runtime-Policies.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

> To create your own, custom policy, first select Add Policy in the upper right corner.  Then, in the pop-up screen, select Workload Policy.

Reviewer: Better.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-choose-policy.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

In the New Policy screen, enter a name and a description:

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-new-policy-name.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

> Keep the policy defaults: Enabled with severity level of High.i  You can customize the scope of this rule, indicating where it should apply.  In this example, the scope is contained to a namespace, called terminal-shell-in-container.  You can also set this to a broader scope, such as kubernetes.cluster.name, for example.

Reviewer: Yes ... fixed

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-policy-scope.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

Next, you’ll want to assign a rule to use with the policy.  Select Import from Library.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-import.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

Find and select "Terminal shell in a container" from the Rules Library, then click Import Rules.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-rules-library.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

You should now see the "Terminal shell in a container" rule assigned to your policy.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-rule-config.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

Next, under Actions, you can choose whether you’d like to kill, stop, or pause the container when the policy is triggered.  For this example, leave this set to Nothing.  Read more about Actions https://docs.sysdig.com/en/docs/sysdig-secure/policies/manage-policies/#define-actions[here].

> Your email is the default notification channel, but you can configure additional options under settings > notification channels. For example, you can choose to send notifications to a Slack Channel.  You can also leave this blank.

Author: Is the lowercase for "settings > notification channels" intentional? Or should it be `__Settings__ > __Notification channels__`?

Reviewer: Updated case

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-actions-config.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

Next, you can enable a Capture to record system call data surrounding an event. For this example, toggle on the capture, provide a file name, and choose the number of seconds before and after the event to record.  For example, 10 seconds before, and 20 seconds after the event.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-capture-config.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

Finally, to create the policy, click Save.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-save-policy.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

=== Trigger a Test Event

You can trigger a test event to observe how Sysdig Secure detects the terminal shell in a container event and drill into the captured information to help you investigate the incident.

> First, open a terminal shell from any container that is running in your SUSE Rancher cluster.  Simply go to the Workloads section and get into any Pod with a running container.  Just for example purposes, the Sysdig agent pod will do.

Author: Shorten a little, make it a little less colloquial, consistently use lowercase for "pod" (I hope that is correct):

```suggestion
First, open a terminal shell from any container that is running in your SUSE Rancher cluster.  Go to the Workloads section and get into any pod with a running container. As an example, you can use the Sysdig agent pod.
```

I would also suggest to replace "get into" but dunno what with because I don't know the UI. E.g. "open the details page for any pod" or similar.

Reviewer: Simpler is better ... thank you.  I didn't like "get into" either; I've changed it to "access."

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-open-terminal-shell-from-rancher-ui-1.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

From the right menu you can click the Execute Shell option, and a new terminal shell will be shown at the bottom of the screen.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-open-terminal-shell-from-rancher-ui-2.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

> That is enough to be caught red-handed by Sysdig Secure.

Author: Let's take the fun (and murder) out of this!:

```suggestion
Sysdig Secure will capture this event.
```

You can also type a few commands in the terminal to generate additional data that will be captured by Sysdig.

> === Viewing and Investigating the Event

Author: Use consistent sentence-case headline style (except for the document title):

```suggestion
=== Viewing and investigating the event
```

> Once the runtime security policy created above is triggered, click Events in the left pane to view more information about event.

Author: Missing word, methinks:

```suggestion
Once the runtime security policy created above is triggered, click Events in the left pane to view more information about an event.
```

Reviewer: Yes.

image::TRD-Kubernetes-ss-sysdig-gs-image-events.png[scaledwidth="75%", align="center"]

Next, click the "Terminal shell in a container" entry to open and view additional information about the event. You can scroll through this panel to see information, such as:

* Information about the policy and rule(s) triggered.

> * Details about where the activity took place in your cluster (Scope), including which container as well as the detected process (in this case, bash).

Author: `bash` is the name of a process, so use monospaced font:

```suggestion
* Details about where the activity took place in your cluster (Scope), including which container as well as the detected process (in this case, `bash`).
```
